---
title: SriLanka 2025 - 12
published: 2025-12-17
description: 'Day 12 of Sri Lanka holiday'
image: ''
tags: [SriLanka,Diary]
category: 'Travel'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---
Photos here:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/dmZNdEjF1M8nZE2m6 

Second day in Kandy.  
Started with a morning cooking class where I made 3 curries for lunch, and learned a lot about spices, making curry powders, and local food.   
The afternoon visiting 2 temples (the  Gadaladeniya Raja Maha Viharaya first, finishing at Sri Lankathilake Rajamaha Viharaya), with an 8k walk between the two through villages and paddy fields.   
I find Sri Lankan names of people and places very difficult. I will never remember where I went. The Sinhalese local language is very descriptive, eg Golumadama Handiya: "Junction of the Nunnery of the Dumb Mutes"   
I could never learn it, with such long words, like German where words are built up of many combined smaller elements, eg: Rindfleischetikettierungsüberwachungsaufgabenübertragungsgesetz - A former law for the delegation of duties for supervising beef labelling.  
The walk was hard - lots of steep up/down, mid 30’s, and pretty much 100% humidity, on a full stomach.  
My guide didn’t speak much English, but was very good at pointing out flora and fauna. He pointed out that many stupa dome shapes were based on the shape of a Bodhi tree leaf.  
I think he also would nominate me for a white cane award.  
Nonetheless it was very enjoyable. The temples were small, dating from 7th century, and quite detailed and beautiful inside.  
A temple guide suggested a donation - I put in 100 rupees, and he got shitty saying I put in 20. My non-English speaking guide backed me up and confirmed it was 100. 20 is 10 cents, a hundred is 50 cents. Even at 100, I could well be justifiably accused of being a tight arse.  
For an idea of costs here - I engaged a tuk-tuk to take me to a local supermarket, wait a few minutes, and back to the hotel - a trip of about 4km. The fee was 300 rupees (about $1.50).
