---
title: SriLanka 2025 - 18-19
published: 2025-12-24
description: 'Days 18-19 of Sri Lanka holiday'
image: ''
tags: [SriLanka]
category: 'Travel'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---
Photos:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/N4i28NBJ2xX6fawY8

After 17 days, this is my first downtime day. A fabulous place for it as the surroundings are very lush and scenic.

I thought I would do a short walk to a waterfall about 2k away. I thought it would be an easy stroll. The sun came out and it turned out to be high 30s, super humid, and the road was very steep up and down - not so easy. Before going, I was advised by staff to ‘be careful walking over a dam’.

When I arrived, there was indeed about 25m of dam wall to cross, narrower than my foot. Water was rushing over it (albeit not a torrent). 

I thought to myself ‘I am a mountain goat - no problem’. 

If I fell to the right, I would get wet, but not die. If I fell left, I would break something non-trivial. 
This colours one’s walking style, creating a desire to lean right, which isn’t helpful, increasing the probability of an inelegant event, when a confident upright stance is desirable.

I strode across, not confidently, leaning a few degrees, resigned to whatever fate the gods decide. I made it, and am glad there is no video evidence of my tottering, right-leaning lurch, as this would destroy my chances with the Bolshoi, or Circus Oz (except maybe as a clown).

It was a very picturesque spot. Worth the effort. I got a tuk-tuk back.
The rest of the day was just chilling in the cabin by the river, strolling around this beautiful place.

24/12/2025

Drive today to Galle. It was about 3 hours, generally pleasant, the last 90 minutes on a freeway in the flat country out of the mountains. The scenery was quite varied with coconut groves, paddy fields, and lush forests.

The freeway had odd warning signs - Beware of Peacocks.

Apparently they fly into car windscreens, and a train driver was injured when one crashed through his window. They weigh about 5kg. 

They are slow moving and don’t manoeuvre very well. Sounds like me - have I found my spirit bird? Probably not, as I lack any plumage, can’t fly, and completely lack colour.

Most places I have been have had few tourists, post cyclone. Not so Galle, which was unaffected and is quite busy. It’s also quite hot and humid here (33+ & 80%).

I’m staying at Galle Sun House, an 1860 vintage mansion built by an unnamed Scot who exported spices to the world, and married a local. It has been well restored, with lovely gardens and rooms. It’s one of those hotels where just staying on the premises is tourism.

Having been in Scotland a few months ago in ‘summer’ as they call it (Billy Connolly said Scotland has 2 seasons - June and winter), I can understand why he stayed. Perhaps a little warm for me here, but I can see the appeal. 

I suspect he became less dour here with each year. Despite the shit the world has thrown at Sri Lanka over the centuries, everyone here seems pretty relaxed and friendly.

Went for a short walk ‘downtown’ to the ocean. This is the first time in the trip I saw any rubbish - it gets washed up on shore.