---
title: SriLanka 2025 - 3
published: 2025-12-08
description: 'Day 3 of Sri Lanka holiday'
image: 'images/SL3.jpg'
tags: [SriLanka]
category: 'Travel'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---

Photos here:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/5k6oYvAZjyJ9fDNY6

A very Buddhist day.
First stop Jethawanaramaya Stupa. Huge, dating to 3rd century AD

It is one of the most iconic and sacred monuments. Built by King Mahasena, this massive brick stupa once stood over 122 m tall, making it the tallest stupa in the ancient world and one of the largest brick structures ever built. It was number 3 to the pyramids at the time.
Some of the top is now missing (I have the same problem with hair).

Then Ruwanweli Maha Seya Stupa, built 2nd century BC, older, but in better shape, with plaster intact and regularly painted. Regular worship happens here.

Next was an amazing sight. The Sri Maha Bodhi tree is the oldest living human-planted tree in the world - 288BC.  It’s from a cutting of the Bo tree in Bodh Gaya, India - the tree under which Lord Buddha attained enlightenment.  The sapling was brought to Sri Lanka by Sanghamitta, a buddhist nun, and ceremoniously received by the king marking a significant moment in the island’s religious history.
Hard not to feel moved and connected to pilgrims over the millennia.

Next Kuttam Pokuna - the Twin Ponds, an example of ancient Sri Lankan engineering. Built by the monks of Anuradhapura, these twin bathing tanks are beautifully designed. The symmetry and craftsmanship are amazing, built more than a thousand years ago.

More at Abhayagiriya, another stupa built around 100BC. It’s in poor shape, needing restoration, but $$ are the issue. I feel this was my ‘spirit stupa’ - larger than necessary, old, lumpy, collapsing, needing $$$ of rehab.

Next Anuradhapura Moonstone, an exquisite semicircle carving. These are usually placed at entrances.

Mihintale temple complex next. This was a struggle. Mid 30’s temp, 100% humidity, and 1800 steps. Near the end you must remove shoes. Some bits I couldn’t visit due to burning feet. This climb hammered me.

For even more, Kaludiya Pokuna pond, also known as the "Black Pond," has a monastery surrounded by large granite boulders and lush forest. The atmosphere is quiet, meditative, and nobody there!

Atd the end of the day, filled with enlightenment, I spontaneously levitated. My guide tied a string to me and towed me back, floating above the stupas, like a helium balloon. 

As I can’t bend, I was not a floating Buddha in a lotus position. It was more like Patricia Piccinini’s Skywhale blimp.

The unkind among you will state this confirms I am full of hot air, and was a deflationary fart away from crashing to the ground.

Having your feet on the ground is overrated. Go meditate.

(For those unfamiliar with Patricia: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/17/world/australia/skywhale-patricia-piccinini-yarra-valley.html )