---
title: SriLanka 2025 - 15
published: 2025-12-20
description: 'Day 15 of Sri Lanka holiday'
image: ''
tags: [SriLanka,Diary]
category: 'Travel'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---
Photos:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/TgXfXjLBwmGRgeUdA

Big walk today. I did a nearly 10km section (around stage 15, of 22) of the 320km Pekoe Trail with local guide Dinuka, through some forest to Ella Rock viewpoint.

When I met him he handed me some ‘leech socks’ to put on over my socks. 

I thought ‘Where the hell are we going?’. These were plastic gaiters that you put on over your socks, going to the knee. They proved of some value, as I heard numerous other walkers on the trail exclaim with horror as they discovered the beasts having a feast. Wearing them was not great fun. Plastic on your feet in a steamy jungle?? Ick. It confirmed latex fetishes are not for me.

Dinuka advised leeches have 300 teeth (100 in each of 3 jaws), 32 brains, and 10 stomachs. I didn’t know that, and am not sure I wanted to. Know you know too - hope this doesn’t affect your dreams.

He also told the story of Major Thomas William Rogers, who killed around 1400 elephants in the decade from 1824. He was viewed as a saviour (not an environmental vandal) by locals, who thought the elephants were a pest. However, this displeased the nature gods, and he died when struck by lightning. Karma. 

A moat was constructed around his cemetery to keep elephants out, but his tombstone was also struck by lightning. Moral - don’t fuck with Ganesh…

There was a crippled dog at Ella Rock, that Dinuka was quite friendly with, always bringing him food. The dog had a non functioning hind leg. Dinuka bandaged a sore.

The walk had some nice views, but for much of it we were walking through cloud, so it was quite muggy.

Not a massively scenic day because of the weather, but the walk was nice.

When I got back to the hotel, I discovered 300 teeth marks in my back - one of the bastards got me. 

Maybe latex fetishes have a functional role in the jungle?
