---
title: SriLanka 2025 - 9
published: 2025-12-14
description: 'Day 9 of Sri Lanka holiday'
image: 'images/SL9.jpg'
tags: [SriLanka,Diary]
category: 'Travel'
draft: false 
lang: 'en'
---
Photos here:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/qn4ydnu6sdFBo6sB9 

Drive to Polwaththa Eco Lodge.

In the mountains at last, and cooler. Still humid, and lots of rain showers.

A bit of a sombre day, seeing horrendous landslides every 1-200m on the road. This hill area was really hammered by the cyclone. The destruction is incredible.

Today was the first day Chaminda drove quickly - I think he wanted to get out of the landslide zone. I was OK with that.

An afternoon at leisure at this place, which is very basic. No AC, but it is cooler here, so don’t really need it. The wooden hut I am in is on a steep slope, on stilts. If there is a landslide here overnight, I’m a goner. Really in a jungle here. It was nice just sitting on the balcony.
If I want a hot shower, I need to give 2 hrs notice so they can light a fire under the tank, which gravity feeds to the hut.
There are poles outside, which are to be carried when walking to bang on the ground to get snakes to move out of your way. Being a Kew resident, with the local riverbank being infested with brown and tiger snakes, I have few concerns.

The approach to this hut is a scrabble down uneven steps and slippery tree roots. I definitely won’t be drinking at dinner. The floor, door, windows and walls all have large gaps, so insect life here is plentiful. The staff here did say, unusually, that mosquitoes are generally not an issue at night, but there is a net if I need it. They did advise closing the doors and windows to keep larger insects out.

Reminds me of a joke I heard years ago in the NT - when I enquired about mozzies at a house, I was told ‘Don’t worry, mate, they won’t bother you - they can’t fit through the door.’

I didn’t use the net, feeling trusting, and woke up with only a few bites. 

Of course, there are yoga lessons to be had here. I’ve tied my shoelaces twice already today, so I’m good.

Dinner was great.
